So, guys, now let us discuss some basics, we will going to discuss some basics regarding mallock
Ippei.
I'm very much sure that you have already must have used my several times in your day to day programming,
and therefore it is obvious that you already have a fair understanding of mallock API and how it works.
But on the other hand, I'm also very sure that there are many things which we are yet to learn regarding
Mallock API, so you must have used Mallock or Kalac in your program to assign Mamoru chunks dynamically
to your process.
So Malac is a standard CE library function that allocates mammaries chunks from process unused, which
will address the space.
Right, and the portion of the virtual address.
The space from which the dynamic memory allocation is done is called Heap Memory segment.
Mallock allocate at least the number of bytes requested, the point of return by mallock points to an
allocated space that is space where a program can read or write its data successfully.
So no other call to mallock will allocate the reserved space or any portion of it unless that space
has been freed before.
Right.
Mallak should also provide resizing and freeing of the memory, so one of the variant of my log like
function is real, OK, and we already know that your log API is used to resize the memory, which has
already claimed by the process.
So in this section, we shall explore the science behind Malac and three, that is, we will going to
discuss that, how the underlying operating system manages the heap memory segment of the process when
the userspace process invokes Mallock and three function calls during the course of its execution.
Now, this diagram must be familiar to you.
This diagram shows the memory layout of a Linux process.
So you can see that white portion is the hip memory segment and it grows upwards, and in this diagram
you can also see that there is a lot of empty antipollution which is sandwiched between the static memory
and the hip memory.
This empty portion is a chunk of virtual address space, which is yet to be used by our process.
So suppose you are process requests, 20 bytes of memory from the operating system by invoking the mallock
function, so period is a pointer type variable and it will restore the starting address of the block
of memory, which is assigned to a process by this mallock function.
So suppose if Pointer points to the address location, for example, the following at this location.
Right.
So let us assume that this mallock function returns this address and it is this address which is being
pointed by this point, a variable.
So it means that this address will be some address in Heap's segment of the process, which will address
the space.
So you can visualize this as follows in this diagram, because you have invoked the mallock API and
requested 20 bytes of memory from the operating system.
The operating system will reserve 20 bytes of memory from the process, which will address the space.
And you can see that the Heap segment has expanded upwards by 20 bytes.
So that starting address of this 20 byte of block of memory is the following address.
So it is this address which is written by the mallock function.
Now let us suppose that you want to write some data into the block of memory, which is 20 bytes, and
is resolved by the mallock function.
So suppose your program executes the following instruction.
That is, you are copying a string high-low into this address.
And we already know that there are five characters in this string.
So now the question is that where will this data go, right?
This data has to be saved somewhere.
So where this is string will actually be stored in the system.
Will this string be destroyed in the process of memory or on the desk or on physical memory or where?
So let us try to understand that whenever your program writes data into the block of memory, where
actually that data goes so you can see that your Madlock return this address.
Right.
So this address is an address in the process which will address the space.
In other words, we say that this is what you will address.
Now, there is something called AMMU Memory Management Unit, whose responsibility is to translate what
you will address to physical address.
And this process is called paging.
So remember, for every virtual address, there exist one physical address.
Right.
So let us suppose that.
After applying the purging this virtual address maps to this physical address, Nevada's physical address,
physical address is the address on the actual physical random access memory which is installed in your
system.
So physical memory means the actual chip which is installed in your system and the physical address
is the address of memory location on your chip.
So not that the actual data always gets written into the physical memory and not in virtual memory.
There is no data in virtual memory.
Virtual memory only have addresses which gets mapped to the corresponding physical address by Amamou.
And it is on that actual physical address where actual data is written or saved.
So I'm sorry.
Here, there's a little mismatch I copied.
Hello, but here I have written Hello World, so just adjust to that.
So actual data or the content is written on physical memory, virtual memory do not contain any data.
Right.
And it makes sense.
In order to save that data, you need some hardware on which you can write that data persistently.
So that piece of hardware in this case is a physical memory, which is actual chip which is installed
in your system.
But there is a side news here, discoursed do not cover Beijing discourse covers only management of
virtual memory, that is heat memory and STAC memory by Linux like operating system.
So we will not going to discuss Beijing in detail.
It is out of the scope of discourse.
And this is slide, I just wanted to explain to you that the actual data is written on the physical
memory and not in processed virtual memory.
And for every virtual address which belongs to the process, what does the space there exists?
A corresponding physical address, which is the address of memory location on physical chip.
The mapping of virtual address to physical address is done by AMEMIYA.
And this concept is called paging.
So and this instruction, you can see that your program thinks that it is writing data into its virtual
memory.
Right.
But this is the illusion.
The operating system internally maps this virtual memory to physical memory by using Amamou or paging.
So the actual data is written on the physical memory and not virtual memory.
In fact, virtual memory is a conceptual thing.
It is not a physical memory which can store content, and it is for this reason, this memory is called
virtual.
Virtual means something which do not exist.